[MUSIC]
>> Brian: I'm gonna show you both ways,
but you can do a binary search tree,
both recursively and iteratively.
I'd actually do it iteratively,
meaning you can either use recursion, or
loops, right?
That's what I actually mean.
I'm gonna use loops on the binary search
tree, but when we move on to AVL trees,
which is our next section, you actually
have to do AVL trees recursively,
so it's up to you if you
want to do recursion.
And just think of this in terms of,
well, if I call it,
if you want to do it recursively, if I
add seven here, let's say five [COUGH].
Well, it doesn't go here.
So, I'm gonna call add, so I call add
on eight with five, then I'm gonna
call add on three with five,
then I call add on six with five, right?
Just calling out on each
node as you go down, right?
That's how it works recursively
as opposed to using iteration.
Does that make sense?
So basically, you're treating, I mean,
you can think of binary search
trees like this, right?
This is a binary search tree right here,
right?
But, this is also, this little subpar,
I bring up my right here.
So, this right here,
if you look at it just that,
that's also a binary search tree, right?
So, if this has an add method on it, I can
just call the add method on that, right?
And then, this right here has a yet
smaller binary search tree, so
I can call add on that.
And then if I call add right here,right,
it doesn't have any children, so
it can just go ahead and add itself.
So that's how you're just making this
bigger problem smaller and smaller and
smaller until you can solve it, right?
That's how it works recursively.
Now if you want to do it with
iteration you can say, okay.
It goes here then here then here right?
So you just basically use a loop to
wedge a way down to the right place.
That's the way I'm gonna do it for
the binary search tree and
then I will do it for the avl trees.
Okay, so, if anyone was wondering.
So, exercise.
Both of them are incorrect by the way.
As you might expect everything with
Loops over recursion tends to be faster,
but in this particular case,
go ahead and do whatever suits you best.
>> Brian: So, a couple ways you
can do this, name your class Tree,
first of all, or else it's not gonna work.
I'm going to have one suggestion to
make another class called Note again
like you did for linked lists.
You can also make every
tree like have sub trees,
so a tree has two trees as children.
It's like recursively defined
classes which is totally OK.
Just like what we were talking
about We're talking about here.
Right like this is a tree.
This is a tree.
This is a tree so.
Either one of those is fine.
However you choose to do that but
just make sure whatever you
have has left and right nodes.
And Yeah, and make a BST,
BSTree, binary search tree.
>> Brian: There is tree
visualisation helper.
As long as you call things value, left and
right in the nodes,
the data visualization helper can do it.
So if you wanna see what that looks like,
let's just take a look at the answer.
>> Brian: That's what the data
visualization helper's gonna look like.
And it's gonna show you
what your tree looks like.
But again, you have to make sure to
call it value left and right, or
otherwise it's not gonna find it.
>> Brian: Okay, so
>> Brian: You,
>> Brian: I didn't describe what
method you're supposed to make but.
So it creates a binary search tree.
And then you're gonna
need a method called add.
>> Brian: And I call toObject.
Okay, well.
So, let's just go ahead and
program up the basic gist of it.
So we'll have Tree.
It's gonna have a constructor.
And you're going to say this
dot root equals null right?
Because it's not initially
going to have a root.
Okay, you're going
to have a two object method to be
able to do the visualization helper.
You can actually just say return this
dot root and that's totally fine.
And then you're gonna need
an add method where it takes in
a value and
it does interesting things with it.
Then down here you can have a node if
you choose it to do the way I did it.
Class node and it looks remarkably
similar to our other one.
Constructor.
So I'm gonna say value left
equals null right equals null.
And you're gonna say the dot value.
this.value equals value.
This stuff left equals no or so
it equals left and this start right.
Equals right.
These are just the fall parameters So
if you don't pass anything in
from right it's going to just assign
it to be known Same thing with left.
That's all that does.
And great, so
now all I really need you to do is do add.
>> Brian: Keeping in mind that
when you first create it,
you're gonna have to
create the root right?
And the other thing is you don't have to
do delete because deletes are a pain in
the butt and you can do them later.
But the basic idea with the deletes
is you just move up nodes.
Well anyway we'll talk
about that afterwards and
just kinda briefly breeze over
what a delete looks like.
In this case just go ahead and do add.
And I'm gonna give you
15 minutes to do that.